---
title: "5\\. Impact of inhomogeneities on slowly rolling quintessence: implications for the local variations of the fine-structure constant"
collection: publications
#permalink: /publication/impactQuintessence.md
excerpt: 'Impact of spatial variation of the fine-structure constant and probe of Quintessence dark energy.'
date: 2021-02-23
venue: 'Classical and Quantum Gravity'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.99.023524'
citation: 'L. Giani, E. Frion and O. Piattella. &quot;Impact of inhomogeneities on slowly rolling quintessence: implications for the local variations of the fine-structure constant.&quot; <i>Class.Quant.Grav. 38 (2021) 17, 175010</i>'
---

<style>
body {
text-align: justify}
</style>

[Download the arXiv version here!](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.11735v2)

<ins><i>Context</i></ins>: The explanation of dark energy coming from a cosmological constant as a model of vacuum energy is difficult to justify. I, along with Leonardo Giani and Oliver Piattella, have developed a new way to constrain one of the most common model of dark energy, the Quintessence model. This theory proposes local variations of the fine-structure constant $$\alpha$$, which can be constrained by spectroscopic measurements of stars near the supermassive black hole in our galaxy's center.

<ins><i>Method</i></ins>: To investigate a dynamic fine-structure constant $$\alpha$$, we combined a quintessential scalar field with Maxwell electromagnetism in a FLRW universe filled with dust. We analysed scalar perturbations in the Newtonian gauge and assumed a spherically symmetrical, static density contrast, and a slowly rolling scalar field. By assuming a static gravitational potential $$\phi$$, we established the relationship between perturbations of the quintessence field $$\delta \phi$$. We then used this information to determine the dependence for a non-static potential. Finally, we calculated the relative variation of $$\alpha$$ through its connection to the electromagnetic coupling and the quintessential field's fluctuations.

<ins><i>Results</i></ins>: 
* In both static and non-static configurations, the gravitational potential generated by a stable
structure leads to perturbations inversely proportional to the distance, <i>i.e.</i> $$\delta \phi \propto 1/r$$...
* ... which induces a spatial dependence of the fine-structure "constant", <i>i.e.</i> the relative variation
of two objects A and B goes as $$\Delta A /\Delta B = r_B / r_A$$.
* Using spectroscopic observations of five stars orbiting around SgrA*, the strongest constraint
obtained is a variation of $$0.4 \pm 2.5$$ for the couple (S0-12,S1-5).
